President Biden has said that the US
will begin sending new military
assistance to Ukraine within hours after
he signed a long-awaited bill passed by
Congress speaking at a press conference
at the White House Mr Biden said that
the aid worth $61 billion would make
America and the world safer he said
Ukraine had the will and skill to win
the war against Russia the package also
includes billions of dollars in aid for
Israel and Taiwan as well as $1 billion
in humanitarian assistance to Gaza
it's a good day for America it's a good
day for Europe and it's a good day for
world peace for real this is
consequential I just signed in the law
the National Security package that was
passed by the House of Representatives
this weekend and by the Senate yesterday
it's going to make America safer it's
going to make the world safer and it
continues America's leadership in the
world and everyone knows it gives vital
support to America's partners and they
so they can defend themselves against
threats to their sovereign
and to the lives and freedom of their
citizens and it's an investment in our
own security because when our allies are
stronger and I want to make this perent
again and again when our allies are
stronger we are stronger I'm grateful
all grateful all those in Congress
Democrats Republicans Independents who
voted for this
bill well our North America
correspondent will grant joins us now
from Washington it's been a long time
coming this uh Ukraine has been waiting
for it for a long time in particular um
just to talk us through through how how
this is going to work he's saying that
some of the aid will be arriving in
Ukraine within
days yeah it has been a long time coming
and Mr Biden acknowledged that he said
it' been a difficult path to his desk
and that it should have got there sooner
um but obviously he was also uh very
thankful to the members of Congress and
the Senate who made it possible um I
think the fact is that um this has been
a torturous process to get to this point
um but the aid is sort of there and Good
To Go part of it is anyway the military
aid will start rolling out almost
immediately particularly in terms of
armored vehicles Munitions uh and so on
that the Pentagon has essentially
waiting to one side but obviously run
out of funds uh that were allocated by
Congress to do so so we will start
seeing that roll out in the coming hours
um and of course President Biden as you
heard In that clip there his core
message is that this is good for the
United States of course that is part of
the sale that he's making to the
American people because this has been
such a divisive issue all the way
through but uh it it it was also pointed
out that a lot of the Munitions that
will be built and will be sent to
Ukraine will be made in the United
States um so that it will benefit the
economy here too we should just mention
the the other aspects of the bill he
talked about the vital support uh for
Israel and he talked about that Ironclad
commitment to helping Israel defend
itself against Iran and and those its
supports and also he he talked about
this 1 billion in Aid going to Gaza and
called on Israel um to make sure that
Palestinians uh get that uh he was very
clear about that wasn't he about that
need to be for it to be
facilitated he was now of course his
critics will say that you know that the
waiting is clearly in favor of what he
called that Ironclad commitment this is
about the 26 billion dollar of uh Aid to
Israel uh and much less about for
example the aid going to Gaza or other
humanit Ian support around the world he
mentioned Haiti as well for example um
but he does make that commitment to to
Israel clear mentioning of course the
Drone attacks earlier this month and
missile attacks from Iran and putting it
into that context so I think that much
was again underlined um but you're right
I think the humanitarian assistance is
important for him particularly to the
left wing of his party to make sure that
that billion dollars was made clear uh
and the urging of Israel to make make it
possible for that a to to to get into
Gaza um that was noteworthy too in his
speech so yeah um touching on all of the
difficulties uh within this bill the
some of the hardest issues on his desk
at the moment I would say okay thank you
very much will grant for us there in
Washington